{"text":"\nAdopted November 8, 1988 \n     I. DECLARATION OF POLICY \n     The people of the City and County of San Francisco find and declare that this community has a vital public interest in available healthcare for all members of the community. \n     In recognition of that interest, the City and County voters adopted an amendment to the Charter in 1985 creating a Health Commission, charged among other duties with \"(managing and con-rolling)matters pertaining to the preservation, promotion and protection of the lives, health and mental health of the inhabitants of the city and county(Section 3.697) \n     The people further find and declare that elimination or curtailment of health services by private hospitals and clinics in this community may have a detrimental effect on the health and well-being of this community. \n     Therefore, the people adopt this Community Health Care Planning Ordinance. \n     II. PROVISION OF HEALTHCARE TO THE COMMUNITY \n     Prior to closing a hospital inpatient or outpatient facility, eliminating or reducing the level of services provided, or prior to the leasing, selling or transfer of management, the hospital shall provide public notice, including notice posted at the entrance to the facility or facilities affected and mailed to the San Francisco Health Commission, of their intention. Such notice shall be posted and mailed not less than 90 days prior to the intended date of the action. The notice shall contain a detailed list of the proposed reductions or changes and the number of patients and employees affected by facility and service. The commission shall make findings based on evidence and testimony from public hearings that the proposed action will or will not have a detrimental impact on the health care service of the community. \n     The commission shall further explore in these public hearings what alternative means are available in the community to provide the service or services to be eliminated or curtailed. \n     It is the intent of the people of San Francisco that the meaning and effect of Section II of this ordinance be construed consistent with the purpose and construction of California Health and Safety Code Sections 1442 and 1442.5. The people further intend that this ordinance be construed consistent with applicable state and federal law. \n\n","heading":{"title":"17:","identifier":"17:","catch_text":"- HEALTH CARE COMMUNITY SERVICE"}}