{"text":"\nAdopted November 7, 1995 \n     An Ordinance requiring the city to conduct a management audit of the Municipal Railway system and implement an Action Plan based on audit results, appropriating $125,000 to pay for the cost of the audit. \n     Be it ordained by the People of the City and County of San Francisco: \n     SEC. 1. COMPLETE MANAGEMENT AUDIT OF THE MUNICIPAL RAILWAY; SCOPE OF AUDIT; TIME FOR COMPLETION. \n     (a)     The City and County of San Francisco hereby mandates that a comprehensive management audit be conducted by the Budget Analyst of the Board of Supervisors. Further, the Transportation Commission shall conduct a series of public hearings to discuss the audit and its findings, and that after the Transportation Commission shall prepare an Action Plan and submit it to the Mayor. The Mayor, the Transportation Commission, the head of the Municipal Railway, and the Board of Supervisors shall use their best efforts to implement and take all steps necessary to carry out costs savings, efficiencies, and safety measures outlined in the Action Plan. \n     (b)     No later than thirty days after the effective date of this ordinance, the Budget Analyst of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors shall begin a comprehensive management audit of the Municipal Railway. The Budget Analyst may retain the services of a qualified professional transit consultant to assist the Budget Analyst with the management audit. The Budget Analyst shall deliver a report of its findings and recommendations to the Transportation Com-mission no later than six months after commencement of the Audit or seven months after the effective date of this ordinance. \n     (c)     The audit shall include, but not be limited to the following:\n          (1)     Improved Service and Scheduling\n          (2)     Increasing Cost Efficiencies\n          (3)     Selling of Surplus Assets\n          (4)     Acquisition Plans for New Equipment\n          (5)     Salaries and Employee Benefits\n          (6)     Safety of Passengers and Drivers\n          (7)     Contracting Out Specific Routes\n     SEC. 2 REVIEW AND ADOPTION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF ACTION PLAN, BASED ON REVIEW OF AUDIT RECOMMENDATIONS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS; IMPLEMENTATION. \n     (a)     Within eight months after effective date of this ordinance, the Transportation Commission of the City and County of San Francisco shall begin three consecutive months of public hearings to review the findings and recommendations contained in the report. \n     (b)     Within thirteen months after the effective date of this ordinance, the Transportation Commission shall approve and propose to the Mayor its recommended Action Plan for implementation of audit recommendations and related steps to improve service, safety, and cost-effectiveness. \n     (c)     The Mayor shall approve the Commission's Action Plan, and the Transportation Commission, the Municipal Railway Director, the Mayor, and the Board of Supervisors shall use their best efforts to implement the Action Plan. \n     SEC. 3 PROHIBITION OF FARE INCREASES PRIOR TO COMPLETION OF THE AUDIT, PUBLIC HEARINGS AND APPROVAL BY THE MAYOR. \n     The voters of the City and County of San Francisco hereby prohibit the Mayor, the Board of Supervisors, and the Transportation Commission to allow any fare increase from taking effect unless and until the audit is completed and the audit recommendations are discussed at public hearings, and an Action Plan has been approved by the Mayor, as provided above. \n     SEC. 4 APPROPRIATION. \n     Within 30 days after the effective date of this ordinance, the people hereby mandate that the City and County of San Francisco shall appropriate the sum of $125,000 from any legally available funds for the Transportation Commission to pay the fees and expenses of the Budget Analyst and the professional transit consultant. The Controller is directed to prepare all the necessary documentation to process this appropriation. \n     SEC. 5 SEVERABILITY. \n     If any provision or clause of sections one through four hereinabove, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be void, invalid, or otherwise unenforceable for any reason whatsoever by any court of competent jurisdiction, such voidness, invalidity, or unenforceability shall not affect the other provisions and clauses of the said sections, to this end the provisions and clauses of the said sections are declared to be severable. \n\n","heading":{"title":"32:","identifier":"32:","catch_text":"- MUNICIPAL RAILWAY AUDIT"}}